[Music]
hey how's it going Dave Judy here so
this is a laptop that's been out for a
couple months and I've had it for a
couple months and you guys haven't asked
me to make this video for a couple
months but I've purposefully avoided
doing it because I wasn't sure if I was
gonna make this video I wasn't sure if I
was gonna make content on this thing
because of an interaction that I had
with the company and you'll understand
at the end of the video why but this is
the xiaomi notebook pro and this is for
all intents and purposes a really really
good laptop for the money it starts at
nine hundred bucks and it's packed with
just great performance great specs and a
really good design it's obviously been
inspired by apple inspired is a gentle
word but it looks a lot like Apple
laptops they've done a great job
building this thing and there's a lot to
like about it so I'm gonna kind of go
through things I like about it talk
about a few things that I don't like
about it and then kind of go into the
reasons why I kind of hesitated on
making this video okay first the build
quality in this thing is great it's got
aluminum everywhere very minimal design
it has very little branding on the top
and on the bottom the only obvious
branding you'll see on this entire
laptop is right at the bottom of the
screen and it's just a very muted look
to a very well-built laptop now comes
pre-loaded with Chinese Windows 10 which
you're gonna have to wipe and then
install whatever language of Windows 10
you'd like I used English and well the
good thing is that the digital license
is activated so you don't have to
purchase a separate license or anything
it's just it works Windows 10 home ran
perfectly fine on this laptop
I like the port selection on this thing
there's two UPA's and HDMI to you
species as well as an SD card slot now
there's only one use PC that supports
charging as well as high resolution
display output but it is a good
selection of ports it's pretty easy to
get inside it's a bunch of screws on the
bottom one of them being underneath one
of the feet and when you're inside you
can't replace the Wi-Fi card it's a good
one the 80-65 but it looks like it's
built on board but you can replace the
SSD and there's room for a second SSD if
you want the keyboard is nice it's easy
to get used to it actually reminds me a
lot of the older generation Mac books
like the 2015 and earlier MacBook Pros
it's got like a nice plush key travel
and the layout is really good I mean
it's kind of weird that a Chinese
company has one of the better
English keyboard layouts but they do a
good job at it and I also like the
speakers now they're positioned on the
bottom so they don't have the best
location but I mean they sound good it's
just you lose some of the audio clarity
because it's sitting on the table and
just kind of deflects off of whatever
surface you're using but they do sound
good
now the screen I have kind of mixed
feelings about it's a 1080p panel not
touchscreen and it looks pretty sharp
the color gamut and accuracy are a
little bit lower than expected it just
looks nicer than it actually is but when
you measure with the spider comes out
kind of mediocre the battery life is
really good though so this thing's
coming in at seven and a half hours of
regular use with the screen at 215 it's
I've mentioned this in other videos with
15-inch ultrabooks but I really like
laptops that have 15 inch screens that
are using you processors you just get
better battery life and for a lot of
people it's a good fit this particular
model is running 16 gigs of ram and an
i7 cable a car CPU and for multi-core
stuff in short bursts this thing kicks
ass the thermals are good they're
running to fans in the chassis which is
pretty rare for a you processor and the
thing is there's so much thermal
Headroom with those two fans that you
can bump up the waters on this thing
pretty comfortably like you can hit 35
watt TDP on this thing pretty easily and
that lets you sustain higher clock speed
higher boost speed so if that's what you
want to do this is a great laptop for
that option the fan noise that stock is
pretty quiet not that it's a completely
silent computer anything like that it
does come on but it's just a quiet fan
now this thing is paired with an MX 150
which is one of the best budget GPUs out
there it'll give you reasonable gaming
performance and it's just better than
the integrated chip from Intel and it
gives you a little kick when you're
doing some 3d applications or video
edits I mean it's not a beast for 3d
stuff but if you're looking to do some
casual gaming or graphical work it's a
good option now there's a couple things
that I don't like about this laptop but
the truth is most of it is just nitpicky
stuff the first thing I don't like is
when I mentioned the build quality
everything about it is good except the
bottom edge is super sharp like it feels
unfinished compared to the rest of the
laptop and it's actually a little bit
uncomfortable to hold and the other
thing I don't love is the trackpad so
the actual tracking surface is good it's
very smooth it's a great glass texture
it feels very similar to a Mac track
but the button mechanism oh I don't love
it
it needs way more force to press down
than almost any other laptop that I've
tried and I also don't like the
fingerprint sensor location it's just in
the way of the actual tracking stuff
I've seen fingerprint sensors that have
been on track pads that have been fine
but this one kind of gets in the way
when you're just using the trackpad
another thing that's kind of weird is
that they only give two PCIe lanes for
the drive so instead of the regular four
lanes they're given two and the drive
that they include is a really fast drive
as the Samsung pm9 six one is one of the
fastest om drives you can get out there
but the speeds are crippled a little bit
because of the reduced number of PCIe
lanes but overall this is an awesome
laptop for the money right 900 bucks
gets you so much on this laptop and it's
such good value that when you compare it
to North American brands or just any
other big named laptop brand it's really
hard to compare them because you're just
getting such good value with this device
but the big issue with this thing is the
customer support so I had a friend who
purchased the xiaomi err like their
smaller lighter laptop under my
recommendation because i said it's a
good value he bought it and then like
three months later something went wrong
with it and he went through hell to try
to get that thing replaced and I would
you know I tried to get involved and
just it never happened we're literally
sitting on a brick of a laptop so I
don't know how to recommend this thing
like I feel like for 99.9% of people
that purchased this thing they'll be
happy they'll get this great laptop with
great value and they'll just those
people get it great but for that small
percentage of people that purchase this
if you guys are watching this and you're
interested in buying this it if you buy
it and it busts like that would just
break my heart there's people that save
up for months maybe even a year to buy
one of these things and if it breaks
like that's this is a Chinese company
and if you're trying to get customer
support with this thing like this is the
bottom of the barrel when it comes to
customer support these guys are one of
the most difficult companies have had to
interact with for repairs or replacement
of a laptop but you kind of expect it
for the price of this thing right okay
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
be liked it subs have you loved it see
you guys next time
[Music]
you